# compiler-tl15
The TL programming language is derived from a simplified subset of Pascal. It is designed to provide you the experience writing a compiler without getting
burdened by all of the complexities and details of a complete, standard programming language. This is Java implementation of TL15.0 compiler.


### Implementation Status
1. Lexical Analyzer(Completed)
2. Parser(Completed)
3. Annotated AST Generation(Completed)
4. CFG Generation(Completed)
5. Optimization(Completed)
6. Machine Code Generation(Completed)
7. Testing of the Compiler(Completed)

### Package Level Functionality
1. com.ast AST Generation
2. com.block Block Generation
3. com.codegen Generate MIPS Code
4. com.compiler Main Class to Initiate Compiler
5. com.entities Entity Classes
6. com.nodes Prpgram Nodes such as Declaration Node, If Node etc.
7. com.optimization Perform Optimization on CFG
8. com.parser Parser Functionality
9. com.register Register Allocation for Variables
10. com.scanner Lexical Analyzer
11. com.utils Utility Classes such as File Writter, Log Printer
12. com.visitors Visitor Implementation for Symantic Analysis and Print AST Tree


### Features of Implementation
1. Optimized Machine Code generated by the compiler.
2. Dead Code Elimination optimization.
3. SSH Optimization.
4. Register Uses Optimization using stack and Spelling.
5. AST Printing and Semantic checking is performed with the help of Visitor pattern that are more flexible if we want to implement further functionalities.
6. OOP based implementation of the project for future scalability.


### GENERAL USAGE GUIDE
1. To Run the Compiler Make Sure that JAVA is installed with proper JAVA_HOME and PATH variable value.

2. To compile and run the software run following commands in scripts folder.
For Linux Build:
./build_linux.sh
For Linux Application Execute:
./exec_linux.sh
or
./exec_linux.sh sourcefile.tl
For Windows Build:
build_win.bat
For Windows Application Execute:
exec_win.bat
or
exec_win.bat sourcefile.tl
Note: If in Linux executing .sh files faces shows permission related error, please execute following command
chmod 777 *.sh

3. You can provide TL15 source file as parameter or after running the program it will ask for source file path. Make sure that file extension contains "tl".

4. AST dot, CFG file and Execution File will be generated at TL15.0 source file directory with same name as source file; but extension will be .ast.dot, .cfg.dot and .s respectively.

5. Execution Files(*.s) can be executed in MIPS(http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~larus/spim.html) simulator.

